[ADD] Sales: adding doc about variants in orders (#1037)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/sales/sales/send_quotations/orders_and_variants.rst

=========================================

> Product Variants on quotations and orders

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Product variants on quotations and orders
```

=========================================

Adding Product Variants to Quotations and Sales Orders can utilize the Product Configurator,
Variant Grid, or both depending on what is better the situation.

.. tip::
   Only one type of Variant Selection option can be active on a product template at a time. They
   can be edited at any time.

Activating the settings
=======================

> Before using product variants on your quotations and sales orders, you first need to activate one

Reviewer: [I didn't suggest using lower case for SOs on line 6 :)](https://i.imgur.com/e3syojH.png)

> Before using product variants on your quotations and sales orders, you first need to activate one

Author: Whoops! Sorry!

or both of the settings. To do so in the Sales App, head to menu :menuselection:`Configuration
--> Settings`, and locate the **Product Configurator** and **Variant Grid Entry** lines
respectively.

.. image:: orders_and_variants/activating-entry-type-settings.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Activating entry type settings

Using the Product Configurator
==============================
When activated, The Product Configurator appears on a Quotation or Sales Order when products are

> added that have both Variants configured and the Product Configurator option selected.

Author: Re-reading the previous one, I didn't actually talk about it since these are both specifically sales-related. I'll add it in.

Create a quotation and add a product with the Configurator enabled. Immediately, the Product
Configurator pops up on screen, and your Salespeople can choose from available options similar to
what you’d see when online shopping. Color options display any HTML color codes set-up in the
color attribute. Attributes with a price extra added will display the extra amount next to their
name.

.. image:: orders_and_variants/configurator-price-extras.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Product Configurator and Price Extras

After confirming a selection, the name of the product will be followed by the chosen variants in
parentheses as part of the Product Description, but they can also be shown if Product Variants
are checked in the additional options menu (3 dots).

.. image:: orders_and_variants/variants-in-description.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Variants in order lines

Using Variant Grid Entries
==========================

> Variant Grid Entries appear on a Quotation or Sales Order after adding products configured with
> both Variants and **Order Grid Entry**. Grid Entry can streamline the process of entering large,
> varied orders of a product through the ability to enter the exact quantities of every variation
> all at once.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Variant Grid Entries appear on a quotation or Sales Order after adding products configured with
both variants and **Order Grid Entry**. Grid Entry can streamline the process of entering large,
varied orders of a product through the ability to enter the exact quantities of every variation
all at once.
```

> Create a quotation and add a product with the Grid Entry enabled. The Grid pops up on screen, and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a quotation and add a product with Grid Entry enabled. The grid then pops up, and
```

salespeople can select as many available variants and quantities as they want by either typing in

> the number or using the arrows. Any unavailable combinations display “Not Available” and cannot
> have any quantities added.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the number or using the arrows. *Not available* is displayed when a combination isn't possible and can't have any quantities added.
```
I might have changed the meaning of the sentence as I tried to clarify what was exactly meant by *Not available* (i.e. doesn't mean that there is no stock, right?)

Author: Yeah, _not available_, in this case, means that you cannot make the selection because that particular combination isn't possible at all.

.. image:: orders_and_variants/grid-entry-popup-amounts.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Variant Grid Entry Pop-Up

> Confirming your selections adds each variation as individual line items to the Quotation or Sales
> Order. If, for example, the customer wants a small shirt in every available color, each shirt
> will each have its own line item with individualized descriptions because each of these items
> have their own stock.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Confirming your selections adds each variation as individual line items to the quotation or Sales
Order. If, for example, the customer wants a small shirt in every available color, each shirt
has its own line item with individualized descriptions because each of these items
has its own stock.
```

.. image:: orders_and_variants/grid-variants-line-items.png
   :align: center

>    :alt: Line Items for Grid Variants

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   :alt: Line items for Grid Variants
```

.. note::
   The product must have at least two variants (one attribute with two values) created in order for
   the :guilabel:`Sales Variant Selection` option to appear. Click :guilabel:`Add a line` under
   :guilabel:`Attribute` to add attributes and values to this product and create product variants.

Use the Product Configurator
============================

The :guilabel:`Product Configurator` appears on a quotation or sales order when products are added
that have both variants configured and the :guilabel:`Product Configurator` option selected.

The :guilabel:`Product Configurator` lets salespeople choose exactly which product variant to add
to the quotation or sales order using a format similar to online shopping. Color options display
any HTML color codes set up in the :guilabel:`Color` attribute. Features with an additional cost
will display the additional cost next to their name. Once the desired product variant attributes
are selected, click :guilabel:`Add` to add the product variant to the quotation or sales order.

.. image:: orders_and_variants/configurator-price-extras.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Product Configurator and Price Extras.

> By default, the product variant attributes is displayed on the quotation or sales order in the

Reviewer 2: Replace `is` with `are`

:guilabel:`Description` column, but the :guilabel:`Product Variant` column can be added through the
additional options menu (3 vertical dots icon).

Use Variant Grid Entries
========================

:guilabel:`Variant Grid Entries` appear on a quotation or sales order when products are added that

> have both variants configured and the :guilabel:`Order Grid Entry` option selected. Grid Entry can

Reviewer 2: Uncapitalize the `E` in `Grid Entry can`

===================================================
Use product variants on quotations and sales orders
===================================================

Product variants can be added to quotations and sales orders using the Product Configurator,
Variant Grid Entry, or both.

Configuration
=============

To enable product variants on quotations and sales orders, head to the :guilabel:`Sales` app, go to
:menuselection:`Configuration --> Settings`, and activate one or both of the
:guilabel:`Product Configurator` and :guilabel:`Variant Grid Entry` settings.

> .. image:: orders_and_variants/activating-entry-type-settings.png

Reviewer 3: @mivu-odoo @samueljlieber Updated image attached
![activating-entry-type-settings](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/101904966/187535216-4906e98b-dba9-4725-abd9-002ad16dfb40.png)

   :align: center
   :alt: Activating entry type settings

Next, configure the product form. Head over to :menuselection:`Sales --> Products --> Products` and
select any product (or click :guilabel:`Create` to create a new one). On the product form, click
:guilabel:`Edit`, then click on the :guilabel:`Variants` tab. Under
:guilabel:`Sales Variant Selection`, choose either :guilabel:`Product Configurator` or
:guilabel:`Order Grid Entry`. This determines which method is used to add this product to
quotations or sales orders.

> .. image:: orders_and_variants/sales-variant-selection.png

Reviewer 3: @mivu-odoo @samueljlieber Updated image attached
![sales-variant-selection](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/101904966/187537053-709b4816-01a2-455b-a784-2817229dda27.png)

   :align: center
   :alt: Sales variant selection

.. note::
   The product must have at least two variants (one attribute with two values) created in order for
   the :guilabel:`Sales Variant Selection` option to appear. Click :guilabel:`Add a line` under
   :guilabel:`Attribute` to add attributes and values to this product and create product variants.

Using the Product Configurator
==============================

The :guilabel:`Product Configurator` appears on a quotation or sales order when products are added
that have both variants configured and the :guilabel:`Product Configurator` option selected.

The :guilabel:`Product Configurator` lets salespeople choose exactly which product variant to add
to the quotation or sales order using a format similar to online shopping. Color options display
any HTML color codes set up in the :guilabel:`Color` attribute. Features with an additional cost

> will display the additional cost next to their name.

Reviewer 2: Add `` Once the desired product variant attributes are selected, click :guilabel:`Add` to add the product variant to the quotation or sales order. `` to the end of the paragraph.

.. image:: orders_and_variants/configurator-price-extras.png
   :align: center

>    :alt: Product Configurator and Price Extras

Reviewer 3: @mivu-odoo @samueljlieber Let's also please update this image to have a purple box instead of a red box :)
![configurator-price-extras](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/101904966/187537661-8f459165-2947-4739-a11a-0185c63593ac.png)

===================================================
Use product variants on quotations and sales orders
===================================================

Product variants can be added to quotations and sales orders using the Product Configurator,
Variant Grid Entry, or both.

Configuration
=============

> Before using product variants on your quotations and sales orders, you first need to activate one
> or both settings. To enable product variants on quotations and sales orders, head to the

Reviewer 3: Deleting this sentence ("Before using product variants... both settings.") that was accidentally left in after the first edit
```suggestion
To enable product variants on quotations and sales orders, head to the
```

:guilabel:`Sales` app, go to :menuselection:`Configuration --> Settings`, and activate one or both
of the :guilabel:`Product Configurator` and :guilabel:`Variant Grid Entry` settings.

.. image:: orders_and_variants/activating-entry-type-settings.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Activating entry type settings

> Head over to :menuselection:`Sales --> Products --> Products` and select any product (or click

Reviewer 3: Adding a sentence for flow
```suggestion
Next, configure the product form. Head over to :menuselection:`Sales --> Products --> Products` and select any product (or click
```

:guilabel:`Create` to create a new one). On the product form, click :guilabel:`Edit`, then click
on the :guilabel:`Variants` tab. Under :guilabel:`Sales Variant Selection`, choose either
:guilabel:`Product Configurator` or :guilabel:`Order Grid Entry`. This determines which method is
used to add this product to quotations or sales orders.

.. image:: orders_and_variants/sales-variant-selection.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Sales variant selection

.. note::
   The product must have at least two variants (one attribute with two values) created in order for
   the :guilabel:`Sales Variant Selection` option to appear. Click :guilabel:`Add a line` under
   :guilabel:`Attribute` to add attributes and values to this product and create product variants.

Using the Product Configurator
==============================

The :guilabel:`Product Configurator` appears on a quotation or sales order when products are added

> that have both :guilabel:`Variants` configured and the :guilabel:`Product Configurator` option

Reviewer 3: Deleting a word and changing formatting for clarity
```suggestion
that have variants configured and the :guilabel:`Product Configurator` option
```

selected.

The :guilabel:`Product Configurator` lets salespeople choose exactly which product variant to add
to the quotation or sales order using a format similar to online shopping. Color options display
any HTML color codes set up in the :guilabel:`Color` attribute. Features with an additional cost
will display the additional cost next to their name.

.. image:: orders_and_variants/configurator-price-extras.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Product Configurator and Price Extras

By default, the product variant is displayed on the quotation or sales order as a
:guilabel:`Description`, but a column called :guilabel:`Product Variant` can be added using the
additional options menu (3 vertical dots icon).

.. image:: orders_and_variants/variants-in-description.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Variants in order lines

Using Variant Grid Entries
==========================

:guilabel:`Variant Grid Entries` appear on a quotation or sales order when products are added that

> have both :guilabel:`Variants` configured and the :guilabel:`Order Grid Entry` option selected.

Reviewer 3: Deleting a word and changing formatting for clarity
```suggestion
have variants configured and the :guilabel:`Order Grid Entry` option selected.
```

=========================================
Product variants on quotations and orders
=========================================

You can utilize the Product Configurator, Variant Grid, or both to add product variants to

> quotations and sales orders depending on the situation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
quotations and Sales Orders depending on the situation.
```

parentheses as part of the product description, but they can also be shown if product variants are
checked in the additional options menu (3 vertical dots icon).

.. image:: orders_and_variants/variants-in-description.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Variants in order lines

Using Variant Grid Entries
==========================

Variant Grid Entries appear on a quotation or Sales Order after adding products configured with
both variants and :guilabel:`Order Grid Entry`. Grid Entry can streamline the process of entering
large, varied orders of a product through the ability to enter the exact quantities of every
variation all at once.

Create a quotation and add a product with :guilabel:`Grid Entry` enabled. The grid then pops up,
and you and your salespeople can select as many available variants and quantities as they want by
either typing in the number or using the arrows. :guilabel:`Not Available` is displayed when a
combination isn't possible and cannot have any quantities added.

.. image:: orders_and_variants/grid-entry-popup-amounts.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Variant Grid Entry Pop-Up

> Confirming your selections adds each variation as individual line items to the quotation or Sales
> Order. If, for example, the customer wants a small shirt in every available color, each shirt has
> its own line item with individualized descriptions because each of these items has its own stock.

Reviewer 3: Deleting "you", deleting wordiness
```suggestion
Each product variation appears as an individual line item on the quotation or sales order, because each of these items has its own stock.
```
